HackerRank Ruby Arrays & Hashes
===============================
Ruby Array - Initialization
---------------------------
One of the most commonly used data structures in Ruby is a Ruby Array, and below we see various methods of initializing a ruby array.

Your task is to initialize three different variables as explained below.

Initialize an empty array with the variable name array
Hint
```
array = Array.new
```
or
```
array = []
```
Initialize an array with exactly one nil element in it with the variable name array_1
Hint
```
array_1 = Array.new(1)
```
or
```
array_1 = [nil]
```
Initialize an array with exactly two elements with value 10 in it using the variable name array_2.
Hint
```
array_2 = Array.new(2, 10)
```
or
```
array_2 = [10, 10]
```
Ruby Array - Index, Part 1
--------------------------
Array collections offer various ways to access their elements.

The positions are 0 indexed. Objects of the array can be accessed using the [] method which may take various arguments, as explained below.
```
arr = [9, 5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 0, -1]
```
A number which is the position of element
```
>>arr[4]
  => 
```
or
```
>>arr.at(4)
  => 3 
```
A range indicating the start and the end position
```
>>arr[1..3] # .. indicates both indices are inclusive. 
  => [5,1,2]
>>arr[1...3] # ... indicates the last index is excluded.
  => [5,1]
```
Start index and the length of the range
```
>>arr[1,4]
  => [5, 1, 2, 3]
```
For this challenge, your task is to complete the functions using syntax as explained above.

Ruby Array - Index, Part 2
--------------------------
Here are some other ways to access array objects in Ruby.

To access the elements from the end of the list, we can use negative indices.

For the array,
```
arr = [9, 5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 0, -1]
 > arr[-1]
 => -1
```
The first element of the array can be accessed using
```
 > arr.first
 => 9
```
The last element of the array can be accessed using
```
 > arr.last
 => -1
```
The first n elements of the array can be accessed using
```
 arr.take(3)
 => [9, 5, 1]
```
Everything but the first n elements of the array can be accessed using
```
 arr.drop(3)
 => [2, 3, 4, 0, -1]
```
In this challenge, you have to use the syntax as explained above and complete the functions accordingly.

Ruby Array - Addition
---------------------
Arrays provide a variety of methods that allow to add elements to them.

push allows one to add an element to the end of the list.
```
 >x = [1,2]
 >x.push(3)
 => [1,2,3]
```
insert allows one to add one or more elements starting from a given index (shifting elements after the given index in the process).
```
 >x = [1,2]
 >x.insert(1, 5, 6, 7)
 => [1, 5, 6, 7, 2]
```
unshift allows one or more elements to be added at the beginning of the list.
```
 >x = [1,2,3]
 >x.unshift(10, 20, 30)
 => [10, 20, 30, 1, 2, 3]
```
In this challenge, your task is to complete three functions that take in the array arr and

* Add an element to the end of the list
* Add an element to the beginning of the list
* Add an element after a given index (position)
* Add more than one element after a given index (position)

Ruby Array - Deletion
---------------------
The array class has various methods of removing elements from the array.

Let's look at the array
```
 arr = [5, 6, 5, 4, 3, 1, 2, 5, 4, 3, 3, 3] 
```
Delete an element from the end of the array
```
 > arr.pop
 => 3
```
Delete an element from the beginning of the array
```
 > arr.shift
 => 5
```
Delete an element at a given position
```
 > arr.delete_at(2)
 => 4
```
Delete all occurrences of a given element
```
 > arr.delete(5)
 => 5
 > arr
 => [6, 3, 1, 2, 4, 3, 3]
```
Your task is to complete the functions below using syntax as explained above.

Ruby Array - Selection
----------------------
The array class also allows to select and return a subset of an array based on some criteria defined in a block (a block is a group of code within {} that accepts a variable and returns a value).

* Selecting elements that satisfy a given criteria
* Rejecting elements that satisfy a given criteria
```
 > arr = [3, 4, 2, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]
 > arr.select {|a| a > 2}
 => [3, 4, 3, 4, 5, 6]
 > arr.reject {|a| a > 2}
 => [2, 1, 2]
 > arr
 => [3, 4, 2, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]
 > arr.drop_while {|a| a > 1} # removes elements till the block returns false for the first time
 => [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]
```
As you can see, the original array remains unchanged. This is called Non-Destructive Selection. 
For destructive behavior (change to the original array), Ruby provides the following methods:
```
 > arr = [3, 4, 2, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]  
 > arr.delete_if {|a| a < 2}
  => [3, 4, 2, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]  
 > arr.keep_if {|a| a < 4}  
 => [3, 2, 2, 3]
 ```
Note

* An element in a block is selected, rejected, deleted, or kept based on the True or False value generated by that block on that element.
* For a destructive behavior for select and reject or any method that one wants to enforce a change in the original array, a ! can be used at the end of the method i.e., select! and reject!
In this challenge, you have to complete the functions below using syntax as explained above.

Ruby Hash - Initialization
--------------------------
Hashes, also called associative arrays, are dictionary-like data structures which are similar to arrays. Instead of using integers to index an object, however, hashes use any object as its index.

In this challenge, your task is to create three different Hash collections as explained below.

Initialize an empty Hash with the variable name empty_hash
Hint
```
empty_hash = Hash.new 
```
Initialize an empty Hash with the variable name default_hash and the default value of every key set to 1.
Hint
```
default_hash = Hash.new(1)
```
or
```
default_hash = Hash.new
default_hash.default = 1
```
Initialize a hash with the variable name hackerrank and having the key-value pairs
```
"simmy", 100  
"vivmbbs",200
```
Hint
```
hackerrank = {"simmy" => 100, "vivmbbs" => 200}
```
Hash can be defined using a new method
```
hackerrank = Hash.new
hackerrank["simmy"] = 100
hackerrank["vivmbbs"] = 200
```

Ruby Hash - Each
----------------
You've seen the control structure each used on an array. Similarly, it is available for the Hash collection, as well.

On Hash, it works in two ways.

Consider the example
```
user = {"viv" : 10, "simmy" : 20, "sp2hari" : 30}
```
Using each, each element can be iterated as
```
user.each do |key, value|
    # some code on individual key, value
end
```
or
```
user.each do |arr|
    # here arr[0] is the key and arr[1] is the value
end
```
Your task is to use each and iterate through the collection and print the key-value pair in separate lines.

Hint
```
puts key
puts value
```

Ruby Hash - Addition, Deletion, Selection
-----------------------------------------
In this challenge, we will show you ways in which we can add key-value pairs to Hash objects, delete keys from them, and retain them based on a logic.

Consider the following Hash object:
```
h = Hash.new
h.default = 0
```
A new key-value pair can be added using or the store method

h[key] = value

or
```
h.store(key, value)
```
An existing key can be deleted using the delete method

h.delete(key)

For destructive selection and deletion, we can use keep_if and delete_if as seen in Array-Selection
```
> h = {1 => 1, 2 => 4, 3 => 9, 4 => 16, 5 => 25}
 => {1 => 1, 2 => 4, 3 => 9, 4 => 16, 5 => 25}
> h.keep_if {|key, value| key % 2 == 0} # or h.delete_if {|key, value| key % 2 != 0}
 => {2 => 4, 4 => 16}
```
Note

For non-destructive selection or rejection, we can use select, reject, and drop_while similar to Array-Selection

In this challenge, a hash object called hackerrank is already created. You have to add

* A key-value pair [543121, 100] to the hackerrank object using store
* Retain all key-value pairs where keys are Integers ( clue : is_a? Integer )
* Delete all key-value pairs where keys are even-valued.
